From high schooler to cyber god

This is a bit of a weird task for our group considering we all have degrees from previous studies, all from entirely different academic realms. Math, opera, and graphic design. Remembering how it felt to be fresh out of high school after years of studying is no easy task, however, what we do have in common is being new to code and programming, and their endless applications.

Steep learning curve.
Working with code, as with other problem-solving oriented fields, is a lot like trying to break down a brick wall using your own head. For hours, days and maybe even weeks it will seem like you are getting absolutely nowhere and all your left with is a headache, but suddenly you crack the code (pun intended) and see the wall crumble before your eyes while you’re filled with an extreme sense of accomplishment. And despite all the hairpulling, coffee chugging and late-night web-forum scavenging, all you want to do after smashing that wall is to get started on the next one. Falling victim to the Dunning-Kruger effect, it’s a never-ending cycle of depressive lows and intoxicating highs. Coding is truly rewarding and quite easy to get lost in!

Binary communication.
Learning code, or at least a specific type of code, is a lot like learning a new language. I assume this is also why we call different types of code languages. If you’ve ever tried to teach yourself a new language before, you know how tough it can be and how overwhelming it can feel. The same can be said about coding languages. The learning curve is steep, but the payback is immense! Once you get the hang of the syntax, setup, and conventions, you unlock a whole new world of communication, and after mastering one language, learning another will be a little easier. One of our group members can vouch for this, as simply having basic experience with C and Python has been very helpful when learning code, especially Java. Html and CSS is a bit different.

A world of possibilities.
Aside from the code itself, the ability to code is an amazing thing on its own. Going from having close to zero knowledge about what goes on under the hood on your computer to learning about programming, servers and machines is a massive eye opener! It feels like we have just started dipping our toes into a whole new world. I would even compare it to learning to speak for the first time as a child. Going from sounds and motions to suddenly being able to express yourself and communicate properly with others. Before enlisting in this study program, we (the group) were merely residents of the cyberworld, ignorant mortals, but now we are stepping into the realm of gods! Obtaining power through knowledge. The power to create and innovate using tools we didn’t even realise existed!

While we may not have much to say about life as a new student in general, as none of us are new at being students, however the world of code and programming is in its own such an incredible thing that it easily overpowers anything else so far in our course. You could almost argue that learning to code is as big, if not bigger, as being fresh out high school. It’s a whole new world, and we’re eager to take part!
